Updated version of the “Hello, Scala” book contents (#1469)
scala/docs.scala-lang: _overviews/hello-scala/case-objects.md

---
layout: multipage-overview
title: Case Objects
description: This lesson introduces Scala 'case objects', which are used to create singletons with a few additional features.
partof: hello_scala
overview-name: Hello, Scala
discourse: true
num: 52
previous-page: case-classes
next-page: functional-error-handling
---

> Before we jump into *case objects*, we should provide a little background on “regular” Scala objects. As we mentioned early in this book, you use a Scala `object` when you want to create a singleton object. As [the official Scala documentation states](https://docs.scala-lang.org/tour/singleton-objects.html), “Methods and values that aren’t associated with individual instances of a class belong in singleton objects, denoted by using the keyword `object` instead of `class`.”

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we jump into *case objects*, we should provide a little background on “regular” Scala objects. As we mentioned early in this book, you use a Scala `object` when you want to create a singleton object. As [documentation states]({{site.baseurl}}/tour/singleton-objects.html), “Methods and values that aren’t associated with individual instances of a class belong in singleton objects, denoted by using the keyword `object` instead of `class`.”
```

Author: I resolved this in the code (text).

A common example of this is when you create a “utilities” object, such as this one:

```scala
object PizzaUtils {
    def addTopping(p: Pizza, t: Topping): Pizza = ...
    def removeTopping(p: Pizza, t: Topping): Pizza = ...
    def removeAllToppings(p: Pizza): Pizza = ...
}
```

Or this one:

```scala
object FileUtils {
    def readTextFileAsString(filename: String): Try[String] = ...
    def copyFile(srcFile: File, destFile: File): Try[Boolean] = ...
    def readFileToByteArray(file: File): Try[Array[Byte]] = ...
    def readFileToString(file: File): Try[String] = ...
    def readFileToString(file: File, encoding: String): Try[String] = ...
    def readLines(file: File, encoding: String): Try[List[String]] = ...
}
```

This is a common way way of using the Scala `object` construct.

## Case objects

A `case object` is like an `object`, but just like a case class has more features than a regular class, a case object has more features than a regular object. It specifically has two important features that make it useful:

- It is serializable

> - It has a default `hashCode` implementation

Author: I think at this point I was thinking that besides using case objects for ADTs, the place where I often them is for messages with Akka. I’ll see if I can rewrite this to just stick to the differences between plain objects and case objects.

> - It has a default `hashCode` implementation

Author: I simplified this discussion a little bit.
